Add support for environment variable based rack awareness (#12593)
strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator: documentation/api/io.strimzi.api.kafka.model.common.Rack.adoc

The `rack` option configures rack awareness.
A _rack_ can represent an availability zone, data center, or an actual rack in your data center.
The _rack_ can be configured in two different ways:

> * Based on a topology label of the Kubernetes worker node

Reviewer: ```suggestion

* Based on a topology label of the Kubernetes worker node
```

Reviewer: Bullets need a space to format correctly

> * based on a user-configured environment variable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Based on a user-configured environment variable
```

Spreading replicas improves resiliency, and is important for availability and reliability.
To enable rack awareness in Kafka, add the `rack` option to the `.spec.kafka` section of the `Kafka` custom resource as shown in the example below.

> NOTE: The _rack_ in which brokers are running can change in some cases when the pods are deleted or restarted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The _rack_ in which brokers run can change when pods are deleted or restarted.
```

> As a result, the replicas running in different racks might then share the same rack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a result, replicas that were running in different racks might then share the same rack.
```

> Use Cruise Control and the `KafkaRebalance` resource with the `RackAwareGoal` to make sure that replicas remain distributed across different racks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use Cruise Control and the `KafkaRebalance` resource and the `RackAwareGoal` to make sure that replicas remain distributed across different racks.
```

  kafka:
    # ...
    rack:
      type: topology-label
      topologyKey: topology.kubernetes.io/zone
    # ...
----

> When rack awareness based on a topology label is enabled, Strimzi adds a node affinity rule to ensure Kafka nodes are scheduled on Kubernetes workers that include the specified `topologyKey` label.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When rack awareness based on a topology label is enabled, Strimzi adds a node affinity rule to ensure Kafka nodes are scheduled on Kubernetes worker nodes that include the specified `topologyKey` label.
```

It does not configure additional rules to distribute nodes across racks or zones.
Depending on your exact Kubernetes and Kafka configurations, you should add additional `affinity` rules or configure `topologySpreadConstraints` for Kafka to make sure the nodes are properly distributed across as many racks as possible.
For more information see link:{BookURLDeploying}#assembly-scheduling-str[Configuring pod scheduling^].

= Environment-variable-based rack awareness

> Environment-variable-based rack awareness (`type: environment-variable`) is configured through a `envVarName`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Environment-variable-based rack awareness (`type: environment-variable`) is configured using `envVarName`.
```

`envVarName` identifies the environment variable that contains the name of the topology in its value.

> Users are expected to configure this environment variable on their own, for example using the `template` configuration on a per-node pool basis, or using mutating webhooks and other tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must configure this environment variable yourself, for example by setting it in the node pool `template` configuration or by applying a mutating webhook or similar tooling.
```

.Example `type: environment-variable` `rack` configuration for Kafka custom resource and per-node pool environment variables
[source,yaml,subs=attributes+]
----
apiVersion: {KafkaApiVersion}
kind: Kafka
metadata:
  name: my-cluster
spec:
  kafka:
    # ...
    rack:
      type: environment-variable
      envVarName: MY_RACK_ID
    # ...
---
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1
kind: KafkaNodePool
metadata:
  name: zone-1
  labels:
    strimzi.io/cluster: my-cluster
spec:
  # ...
  template:
    kafkaContainer:
      env:
        - name: MY_RACK_ID
          value: zone-1
---
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1
kind: KafkaNodePool
metadata:
  name: zone-2
  labels:
    strimzi.io/cluster: my-cluster
spec:
  # ...
  template:
    kafkaContainer:
      env:
        - name: MY_RACK_ID
          value: zone-2
---
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1
kind: KafkaNodePool
metadata:
  name: zone-3
  labels:
    strimzi.io/cluster: my-cluster
spec:
  # ...
  template:
    kafkaContainer:
      env:
        - name: MY_RACK_ID
          value: zone-3
----

> When rack awareness based on an environment variable is enabled, Strimzi will not add any affinity rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When rack awareness based on an environment variable is enabled, Strimzi does not add affinity rules.
```

> Users are expected to configure their own  `affinity` or `topologySpreadConstraints` rules to make sure the nodes are properly distributed across as many racks as possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must configure your own  `affinity` or `topologySpreadConstraints` rules to make sure that nodes are properly distributed across racks.
```
